If you are looking for the best health insurance plan for yourself or your family, then
ICICI LBD Elevate Plan will definitely be on your comparison list.
But
understanding this plan at a bare surface level is
not enough.  If you buy this plan after reading the brochure, you may face a
lot of problems at the time of claim.  That's why
today I have
brought for you a very detailed, comprehensive and deep review video of this plan.  First of all,
we will know
what is the USP of Elevate Plan?  What are those
features that make this plan so special and
attractive?  After that we
will know what are the eligibility conditions for taking this plan
?  Who
can buy this plan?  After that, I will tell you about the
standard coverage and benefits of the Elevate plan.
Then we will go to the ICICI LB
website and understand each add-on one by one
and along with this
I will also tell you the pricing of each add-on so that you can
know how much it is going to cost you to get these additional features.  Apart from this, we will
also talk about discounts.  We will
also talk about the waiting period, which treatment will be
covered after how much time and
after knowing and understanding all these things, the
most important part of this video will come, to know how ICICI LBD
as a health insurance company is performing,
I will
use two data here.  The first data is
how many claims has ICICI LBRD Health Insurance settled between 2022 and 2025
, how much money has been given, how many complaints have been received
?  We will review this data.  The second
data I will use is the
annual report of the Insurance Ombudsman, in which
we will try to find out
how many policy
holders have complained against ICICI LBR Health Insurance in the year 2024-25 and what
happened to those complaints?  How many complaints were
decided in favor of the policy holders and
how many in favor of the insurance company
so that you can get a complete picture
of how the insurance company is actually going to respond at the time of claim.
Now only one
small work is left.  Please subscribe to the channel quickly
so that we
can continue with the video.  The first USP of the ICIC LBD Elevate plan
is Infinite Care.  This means you
can remove the limit of your sum insured from any one selected claim.
After that you can take that claim up to unlimited amount.  There will be
no limit on treatment.  Whatever expenses are incurred,
the company will fully approve that claim.
You will have to take this as an add-on in this plan.  The
second USP is Friends Power
Booster which is also called Super Loyalty Bonus.
Every year when you renew your policy,
you will get extra sum insured equal to your sum insured
till unlimited renewals.  That means no
maximum capping has been imposed on it.
You will also have to take this as an add-on in the Elevate plan.  The
third USP is Jump Start.
If you have a family member with
asthma, diabetes, hypertension, or
high cholesterol and
want to get quick coverage for these conditions,
you will need to take the Jump Start add-on within the Elevate plan.  After which
you will get coverage for the enlisted conditions from 31 days.  The
fourth USP is the reset
benefit.  This is the recharge benefit of this plan.
Whenever you
fall short of money for any treatment, your amount will be recharged up to 100% of the sum insured
and this will continue for unlimited times
so that you never
face shortage of money for the sum insured treatment.  And the fifth USP
is Infinite Sum Insured.  Actually,
you choose fixed sum insured for a plan.
5 lakh, 10 lakh, 15 lakh, 20 lakh.
But if you want, you can
also choose unlimited sum insured under this plan.
However, nowadays you will get
this unlimited sum insured option in many plans.
But ICICI LBD is the company
which introduced this feature and
brought infinite sum insured for the first time.
Apart from this, you also get maternity newborn baby
coverage and coverage of advanced i.e. modern
treatments under this plan.
Which we will discuss further in the coverage and
benefits section.
But let us first know
what are the eligibility conditions for purchasing this plan?   That
is, who can buy this plan.   First of all we will
talk about the entry age.  So
any adult member whose age is more than 18 years
and the maximum entry age mentioned is
125 years.  But that
means there is no capping on the maximum age.
If we talk about dependent children, that is,
those children who are currently unemployed,
unmarried, non-earning and
dependent on their parents, then they can stay
with their parents in
a family floater plan from the age of 91 days till they attain the maximum age of 30 years.
Talking about
renewability,
you can renew the ICIC LBA Elevate plan for life time.
You can choose both individual and family floater coverage.
If you want each member to have a
dedicated sum insured, you
can opt for individual sum insured.  And
if you want to take a family floater plan so that
one sum insured covers the entire family,
then you can also take that option.  The
maximum family size under the family floater plan will be two adults and
three dependent children.  Now friends, let's talk about
sum insured.  That is, how much
coverage can you get in the Elevate plan
?  So the minimum sum insured is ₹5 lakh
which you will not get in higher zones.  The
minimum sum insured there is ₹7.5 lakh.
Apart from this, the options are ₹7.5 lakh, ₹1 lakh, ₹1 lakh,
20 lakh, 25 lakh, 50 lakh, one crore and
maximum 3 crore.  Apart from this,
you can also choose unlimited sum insured.
What will be the tenure of the policy?  That is, if
I want to take a long term policy at once, then for
how many years can I take the policy?   The
maximum tenure you get under the Elevate plan is
5 years.  If you take a one year
plan then standard price will be
applicable.  But as soon as you
choose a plan for more than one year,
choose a long term policy, you will
get some discount on the premium every year.
We will discuss how much this discount is
in the discounts section.  Now
friends, let's talk about the premium type,
how will the premium be charged in the policy
?  So there is a zone based premium in this plan.  The
entire country is
divided into four zones which you can
see on the screen right now.  Look very carefully at
which zone your city and state
falls under.  If you identify it, please
tell me in the comments
which is your zone.  If we talk about zone
based co-payment, that is, if you take a policy of one zone
and get treatment done in a higher zone,
then is there any
co-payment?  No.  There is
no zone based copayment under ICICI LB Elevate plan.
Now friends, let's talk about the
standard coverage and benefits of the Elevate plan
which you will get by default in this plan.
And the first point of this is
room rent.
Which category of room can policy holders avail during treatment?
So in the standard plan you get a
single private AC room.  But you
can modify it.  It can be upgraded and
downgraded.  We will
see in the addons section what options
are available.  Let's talk about day care procedures, that is,
such technologically advanced
treatments for which 24-hour hospitalization is
not necessary.  Because if there is any minor
surgery, will I get a claim for it
?  Absolutely.  Day care procedures are
also covered under the Elevate plan up to the sum insured.
Now let's talk about
pre and post hospitalization
expenses.  Suppose you
file a claim under the Elevate plan and that claim gets
approved.  But when you
took this treatment, you have already incurred a lot of expenses even before this admission
and
even after getting discharged from the hospital, you will have to
consult the doctor several times.  The doctor will
conduct tests and prescribe medicines during the
recovery period.  So 90 days of pre-
hospitalization expenses and 180 days of
post-hospitalization expenses are covered in
ICSC Labord Elevate plan.  There
are only two conditions.  This admission that took place, when
you took treatment, this claim should be
approved under this plan.  And the expenses that
you will claim, the reimbursement claim that you will file, should be
related to the same treatment.  If there is any
other diagnosis, then that
claim will not be made.  Now let's talk about organ
donor expenses.  If a
policyholder needs an organ transplant
and organ harvesting
is required, i.e., from a donor,
the harvesting charges will be
covered up to the sum insured in the Elevate
plan.  Apart from this, domiciliary hospitalization
is also covered.  When you are receiving treatment at home, either
beds are not available in your preferred hospitals or the patient
's condition is such that he
cannot be taken to the hospital, then treatment can be taken at home also.
This treatment should be for a minimum of three days only then this plan
will cover it and this treatment should be recommended by a registered medical
practitioner i.e. a doctor.
If we talk about AYUSH, on which the
government and regulators are
focusing a lot these days.  That means, you will also get coverage of Ayurveda,
Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha,
Homeopathy
under ICICI Lubbard Elevate Plan.  But
the condition is that only in-patient
hospitalization is covered.  If we talk about
road ambulance, then no capping has been
kept on it.  If the policy holder
takes the patient to the hospital from any emergency place,
then the expenses incurred can also be
claimed under this plan
without any capping.  Now comes the
loyalty bonus friends.  That means, if you renew the same plan
every year without choosing
power booster, you get a loyalty bonus of 20%.
And that can accumulate up to a
maximum of 100%.  Within 5 years your sum
insured will double.  This is the same
benefit as the standard plan.  Even if you do
n't choose the Power Booster,
you will still get this 20% loyalty bonus.
Now comes technological advancements and
treatments, that is,
you can also call them modern treatments.  So, if the listed 12
modern treatments are used or
these procedures are done for
any medically necessary condition, then
those expenses are also covered up to the sum
insured.  There is no capping or submission.
And the final coverage of standard
benefit is surrogacy and surrogate donor cover.
If you want coverage of a surrogate mother or an oocyte donor
i.e. egg donor for inpatient
hospitalization
treatment, then you will get that coverage also
under this plan but the
maximum capping has been kept at ₹5 lakh.  Now
friends, it is time to understand the addons of ICIC LBA Elevate
Plan.  The
most special thing about these is that it is these add-ons
that make this plan so flexible and so
special.  You will also find most of the USPs as
add-ons, and in the add-ons
section, I will not only explain them and
tell you their benefits, but
I will also show you the pricing
so that you can understand how affordable they are
or not.  So friends, to understand the add ons,
I have taken the family size here of
two adults and one child.  The age of adults is
36 and 32 years.  And the
age of the dependent child is 11 years.  His address is
Delhi and he does not have any pre-existing
disease.  Here I am choosing sum insured as
₹15 lakh so that we can
review the pricing and add-ons as well.
So in the beginning itself two add-on
packages have been shown to you.  Essential Pack
and Basic Pack.  Two-hour
hostelisation and nursing at home are
two additional features covered under the basic pack.  The rest
of the Essentials pack contains the standard features
that I have explained to you so far.
So let's look inside the Essential Pack and
see what add-ons the
company offers here.  The first add-on
is Power Booster.  I told you about super
loyalty.  Now here the sum insured
for this family is ₹15 lakh.  So every year ₹15 lakh will be
added to the sum insured in their policy.
Unlimited Times Irrespective of
Claim.  If we add this feature
in it then it will cost around ₹400 to approximately ₹23,000.  The
premium increases by approximately ₹2600.  Now you can
also compare the prices and see whether this add-
on is worth it for you or not.  The second
add-on is Infinite Care.  Infinite Care
means that you can stretch any single claim
to an unlimited amount.   The
limit on your sum insured will be removed once in the
policy lifetime i.e.
once in the entire policy lifetime.  Now the
premium here is coming around ₹23,000.  If you
add Infinite Care, the premium becomes
₹24,600.  That means approximately ₹1600 increases.
If you want to stretch
a claim up to an unlimited amount in a sum insured of ₹15 lakh.
Next and
on is Claim Protector.  This is a very important add
on.  It gives you coverage for non-medical items
and nowadays hospitals are
very interested
in using such items.
You will get a lot of these in billing.  But in this plan
you get coverage only for List One
which includes 68 non-medical items.
If you add this, the
premium increases by ₹24,650.
₹25,604 approx. Premium increases by around ₹19,950.
But I would recommend that
we should definitely take the Claim Protector add-on.
Apart from this, there is tele consultation
in which you can take unlimited consultations
through audio video, online portal,
chat and mobile app. You
can take advice from their panel of doctors.
Apart from this, you can also get a health checkup done.   There is an
add-on of annual health checkup here,
you can also avail that.  Next add-on is the
much-needed room rent modifier.  Now I had
told you that you will get room rent only for a
single private AC room.  The coverage
category is Single Private AC Room, if you
click on the Add option here, you
can upgrade to Any Room or
you can downgrade to Twin Sharing, that is,
two patients can stay in one room.
Currently our premium is
₹25,604.  We select Any Room here
because we do not want
any room rent capping within the policy.
From ₹25,600 it will become ₹26,837,
which means the room rent has increased by approximately ₹10 due to
modification.  Right now I am
just showing you the pricing of the addons.
Later, we will keep the necessary add-ons which I feel are necessary
for this family
and after that we will review whether
their pricing is right.  The next add on is
inflation protectors which are getting more expensive to treat every year.
If you want to avoid that inflation then you can
take this add on.
With this premium and this add-on, your sum
insured will automatically increase according to this inflation rate without increasing your basic sum insured.  The
next add-on comes
Friends Jump Start.  This is a very important add
on.  Especially for those policy holders
whose family members have asthma,
diabetes, hypertension or high cholesterol,
they can avail coverage from the 31st day.   The
current premium is Rs 26,837.  Let's see
how much the premium will increase after adding this.  The
condition shown here is that
Jump Start is only for those policy holders
who have any of the four existing conditions
and BMI less than 35 and
this should be declared when you
buy the policy.  Click OK on this and
see our premium has become 30332.  So
now here you can see
how much your premium will increase by
taking Jump Start add-on for a sum insured of ₹15 lakh.  Apart from this, the
waiting period can also be reduced
through this add-on.  If someone has a mild
PED and you think 3 years would be a
very long waiting period.  If I want to do it for
2 years or one year, you will get the option for that also
here.  You can also reduce the waiting period of this PED from 3 years to 2
years and from 3 years to 1 year.
Similarly, the
specific illnesses which are listed
surgeries, for which you will get coverage after 2 years,
you can also reduce it from 2 years to
1 year.  But you have to keep one thing in
mind that whatever add-on you choose from this list,
please compare its premium
because
you will have to pay the premium of most of the add-ons for life long.
So affordability matters a lot to stay
with any health insurance plan for a
long time.   The
next add-on is the Convalescence Benefit,
which means that if the hospitalization is prolonged, you will
get a recovery allowance of up to ₹000, which will be available only once
in a policy year.
Apart from this, if you want coverage for
two hours hospitalization.  That means if there is
any treatment of 2 hours in which room
is used or there is doctor's fee
, nursing fee, we want coverage for that also.
Other than day care treatment,
you can also get coverage for that.  Otherwise the
standard time is 24 hours.  24-
hour admission is required.
For Ayush treatment, 24-hour
admission is still required.  But if there are any
treatments, procedures that are
not covered in day care treatment.   If
you want to cover that 2 hours of hosting then you can
add it.  Currently the
premium is Rs 30,300.  If we add this,
it will increase by approximately ₹3140,
that is, approximately ₹700 has increased in it.
Apart from this, there is an add-on of dependent
accommodation benefit, that is, if the policy
holder
wants to cover the stay expenses of the dependents of the patient, then
that can also be claimed.
If any hostelization during the compassionate visit
lasts more than 5 days and there is no
immediate family member accompanying, then the
company will bear their air travel expenses.   The
maximum amount
you can get for policy coverage is ₹2000.  You can also add this
and coverage of domestic air ambulance is
also given as an add-on.  This option can
also be added from here.
Apart from this, you get a rider called B Fit,
under which you can cover OPD expenses
which also includes doctor's consultation, lab
tests and medicines.  If you
add this, your premium increases from ₹3140 to
₹32,762.
Apart from this, coverage also comes for durable medical
equipment.  That is, such devices which the
doctor tells us that later the
patient needs a wheelchair or an oxygen
concentrator.  Later,
you can also take add-ons of
durable medical equipment which are necessary to maintain good health for sustainability.
If you add this, then
your premium increases from ₹31,000 to ₹32,900, approximately by ₹2000.
Apart from this, you will get nursing at home coverage in
which you can claim ₹2000 nursing charges per day.
This facility can be used after discharge.  But
for this you will have to take add on.  The next
add-on is Maternity Benefit which will cover
maternity expenses
equal to 10% of your sum insured.  The waiting period
in this is 24 months.  If we add this,
suppose there is a policy of ₹15 lakh, then
C-section and normal delivery worth ₹1.5 lakh can be
covered.  Let's see
how expensive the maternity benefit is.  If this is
added, the premium increases from ₹31,000 to
₹76,000,
i.e., approximately ₹46,500.
By adding the maternity benefit, you will pay a premium of Rs 46,000 in the first year and Rs
46,000 in the second year, which means
you will get this coverage within almost Rs 90,000 to Rs 91,000.
So if you want, you
can take it, otherwise there are many other
maternity plans available which are
also affordable.  Now friends, it is the turn of personal
accidental cover in which lump sum benefit can also be
availed.  In case of
accidental death of an adult policy holder,
coverage up to ₹50 lakh can be availed.  This
coverage is available only to policyholders
who are till 65 years of age at the time of first policy issue.
And the claim can be made for lifetime up to 100% of the
sum insured which is for this coverage.
Critical Illness
benefit has been deactivated here.
However, you can also get it by discussing with the company.
Apart from this you get world wide
coverage.  You
can avail cashless facilities even outside India.   The
maximum sum insured is ₹3 crore and you can avail coverage for 45
executive days with a total of 90 days.
When you are
travelling outside India and need to
take some treatment there.  So you can also get this add on
from here.  Now there are two add-ons with
which you can reduce the cost of your premium.  The
first is payment to Vantari.
That means you can add any co-payment option you
want.  Options ranging from 10% to 50%
are available.
You will get a discount based on the co-payment you choose.  Suppose you choose
10% copayment.  The premium was ₹31,000.  It becomes
28,000.  You got approximately a 10%
discount here.
In Network Advantage it is said that you will
get a discount of 10%.  But you will have to get
treatment done in these selected hospitals only
and the co-payment will be 20%.  If you get
treatment outside these listed hospitals.
So I say that
avoid taking this add-on and there is no need to take add-ons like co-payment
unnecessarily because you will get a 10% discount
of ₹3000 and the claim that will be deducted, suppose a
claim of ₹3 lakh comes, then ₹00 will be
deducted from it.  So
I don't think there is any need for this either.  So from this list,
we remove the unnecessary add-ons which I do
not find necessary.
Two hour hostelization can be kept.
Apart from this, jump start is not required.  There was no
PD because in this family.  And
apart from this, I have placed the room modifier on any room.  You will
get rooms of every category.  I would not like to take infinite care.
I would like to get a power booster.   Well,
generally I don't believe much
in this kind of coverage.  But still such
features are available in every plan around me.  So I don't want to
feel tomorrow that
this feature should have been included in my plan too.  So let's
take this at the beginning.  How much difference is there?   The
premium is Rs 25,700.  How much will it become if we remove it
?  Of Rs 23,000.  That means there will be a
difference of approximately ₹2600 to ₹2700 by
purchasing the power booster but you will continue to get 100% of the sum insured additional every year.
Mind you this is Zone A premium.
If your Delhi address falls within Zone B, C,
D, then this premium can be much
lower.  Currently, this family will have to
pay ₹25,739
for coverage of ₹15 lakh and there are selected
aids which do not have any limit on power booster, claim
protector and room rent.
Now friends, before I talk
about the claims performance of ICICI LBD
and explain the data of complaints received by the insurance company, let me
show you.  Let us quickly
understand the waiting period of this plan and
then know which discounts you
can avail under this plan.  First of all, let us talk about the
initial waiting period, that is,
your accidental coverage will start from the first day of purchasing the policy.
But
for the first 30 days, you cannot file a claim for any other
coverage including any sickness or illness.
Second comes
specific illness or specific listed
treatments which include a variety of listed
surgeries and procedures.
For example, any stone, lump, hernia,
piles, such treatments will
generally be covered after two years.
However, you can reduce the waiting period.
You might have seen it in addons also.  The third
waiting period is for pre-existing
conditions.  Any medical condition that
we have at the time of taking the policy and we disclose it to the company
and the company accepts it and
issues us the policy, is your
PED and its coverage will be available after 3 years of taking the policy.
If you want to reduce this time, then by paying
additional premium it can be done for 2
years or even one year.  The third
waiting period is for diabetes, BP and
heart related complications.  If you suffer from any BP
related, diabetes i.e. sugar
related or heart condition,
then
you will not get its coverage for 90 days after purchasing the policy.
You can file a claim after 90 days.  And now let's talk about
maternity, its waiting
period is 24 months.  But you noticed that
by default in the addons it has been reduced to
one year.  And
I had also told you the premium that was charged in return.  There
is also a waiting period of 24 months to avail worldwide coverage.
You will be able to activate or use the worldwide coverage after 2 years from the date of purchase of the policy.
Now friends, let's talk about
discounts,
what discounts you can get from the company while purchasing the policy.
So these are total four types of discounts.   The
first discount that comes is
credit score based discount.  If your
credit score and CIBIL score are very good
then you can avail a maximum discount of 15% on your base
premium.  The next
discount is the wellness discount, in which if
you keep yourself active throughout the year
and fulfill the step count criteria,
then
you can avail a maximum discount of 30% on renewal.   The
third discount is for early renewal.
When your policy is due for renewal and you
renew it 30 days before the expiry date,
you will
get an early discount of 2.5%.  And the final
discount is the long term discount.
If you choose to
buy a policy for more than one year, you will
get a long term discount.  How much?
10% on the second year's premium and if you take a policy for three or four years,
you will get a long term discount of 15% on each year's premium.
Now friends, we will talk
about the claims performance of ICICI LBAD.  How many claims has this company paid or how has it performed in the years 2022, 23, 23, 24 and
24-25
?  So there
are five metrics in total for this.  The first metric
is our claim settlement ratio.  This
is empty health insurance data.  It does
not include any personal accidental or travel policies.  The
average claim settlement ratio for financial year 2022, 23, 23, 24 and 24-25
comes to 86.39, which I
think is quite low.  If you
match with good players, some companies have
above 93, 94, even 95% claim settlement.  So
this is much less than that.  Does this mean the company
is bad?  No.  We cannot say that.
But the efficiency of claim settlement,
the number of claims that they are settling within a time is low, which can be improved.
This can be improved.
Second [ __ ] claims paid ratio: When policy
holders asked for claims of ₹100,
how much amount of claims did the company pay out of that.
This will show how much money the company is paying.
So if we take the average of the last 3 years,
from 2022 to 2025, you can see this data
here.  So the average comes out to be
approximately ₹68.
This amount is also quite shocking.  I think the
industry average in this too is
70 plus.  But there are many
players who pay more than 80% of the claims.
Why is this money not being
given now?  Is the company deliberately
not paying the claim?  I will also talk about this
further in the video,
what could be its potential region?
What I think about it.  Next comes the
incurred claims ratio.  Incurred Claim Ratio
means
how many claims were paid by the company in the year for every ₹100 premium taken from the policy holders?  For example,
here the average of 3 years comes out to be
₹83.79 i.e. almost ₹84 i.e. the company
collected a premium of ₹100.  In return,
₹84 were given as claims.  The incurred
claim ratio looks quite good.
Now you can also understand this when the company is
not settling many claims.  If it is
not paying much money then it would mean that it has
probably not been able to sell that many policies.
Even the premium has not been collected that much.
That's why this ratio has come out so good.  Because
if more claims were made then that data would
also be reflected in these two figures.   The
third data comes from the solvency margin, whether the
company has sufficient money or not?
IRDA's benchmark is one and a half times.  Suppose if
a company has distributed policies worth ₹1 crore with
sum insured, then they should
always have ₹1.5 crore in liquid
funds.  So they have a solvency margin of 2.62 times
which is quite
comfortable.  And finally comes
10,000 claims on complaints.
How many complaints are filed per 10,000 claims
?  So it is
increasing little by little year after year.  If we take the average, there are
total 11 complaints in the last 3 years.  The
industry average is 22 to 23
complaints per 10,000 claims, making
this figure significantly lower.  That means,
if we compare the complaints industry wise and
with other companies, they are much less.
Friends, the next data is showing
how many complaints were filed in which company according to the annual report of the Insurance Ombudsman
and out of that how many
complaints were resolved in favor of the policy holder
and how many complaints were decided in
favor of the insurance company or that
complaint was withdrawn or it was settled,
that data is shown here.  The
green bar here denotes
how many decisions have been made in favour of the policy holder
and the red bar shows how many have been decided in favour of the company
or the complaints have been withdrawn.  That
means any complaints for which the
decision has not come in favor of the customer are
shown to us by the red bar.
Talking specifically about ICICI LBD, 35 out of 100
complaints are resolved in favor of the customer
and 64% of the complaints are
resolved in favor of the insurance company.
Either the company settled them
or the policy holder
withdrew the complaints.  But out of 100, the relief
received has been given to only 35 policy holders.
What does this data broadly tell us
?  What does it indicate?  This indicates that the
complaint made by the policyholders was
not reasonable.  This means that the insurance
company is
very aware of the terms and conditions of its policy contract.  And the
decisions taken regarding rejecting the claim or
not granting the claim have proved to be fair.
Because
even after the intervention of the Insurance Ombudsman, only 35% of the policy
holders have got relief.  And
in the rest the Insurance Ombudsman has said that
this rejection is fair.  This shows
that the insurance company which is rejecting the case is
taking the decision only after thoroughly reviewing its terms and conditions.
Unwanted rejections are not being made.
If you want to see the data of these other companies as well,
how many complaints each company has
and how many have been settled in whose favor,
then I will give its detailed video on the
screen at the end of this video.  You
can watch the full review video by clicking there.
Apart from this data, I have given three-four
more insights which will help you in understanding
these companies and these complaints in a better way.
So far friends, we have
looked from a completely neutral point of view at
what coverage and
benefits are there in this plan.  After that we have
also seen data based insights about how the company
is performing or what
we see from the complaints.  Now I am going to
tell you my opinion about this plan which I see, which is
my view regarding this plan.  First of all,
I think the
company has done a great job regarding the coverage and flexibility within the plan.
As far as
designing the plan is concerned.  You get so many add-
ons through which you do not have to
pay premium for any coverage unnecessarily.
You can take whatever you need.
You also get coverage including maternity here.  The
premium may be unreasonable.
But the company has tried to give you every kind of feature.
Any client who comes will
not have any complaint that he is
not getting this coverage.  The second thing comes to
affordability.  So, if there are any
policy holders who do not have any specific pre-
existing conditions, then this is going to be a very
affordable plan both now
and at the time of renewal.  But as
you choose add-ons within the plan
such as reduced waiting period,
jump start add-on or if the policy
holder has any pre-existing condition, the
company will apply loading on this premium
and after that this premium may become very expensive.
Another thing I see about add-ons
that can impact affordability is
that once you choose these facilities,
you will have to pay their premiums for years.
They may
or may not ever be used.  But the company has given so many options
that you would not want to
miss any benefit.  So unless you choose
these add-ons very carefully and thoughtfully,
you will miss out on the affordability factor and your
premium may become very expensive.  The second
thing that I notice after looking at this data is
that the claim
settlement ratio of the insurance company is not in very good ratios.  The
claims paid ratio is not that good.
But when we look at the complaints data,
even
after the intervention of the Insurance Ombudsman,
in most of the complaints the policy holder does not
get relief.  That means when the company's claim
settlement is not good, it is not
paying the full amount.  But
even after the intervention of the Obstetrician, the policy holder
gets only 35% relief.  This means that the
money that was not given, the claims that were rejected, were
fair somewhere.
I think the reason for this is that the company is
very strict about its policy contract.   The
second reason I feel is that we ourselves do not understand this
policy contract as carefully
as the insurance
company does.  Because he has
designed the policy.  So they enforce this policy contract very strictly.   The
terms and conditions at the time of claim approval and at the time of the Insurance Ombudsman are also kept accordingly.
Due to which many complainants do
not get relief.  Let me
tell you a very recent example of this.  ICIC
LBRD has
mentioned material change clause in the policy wordings of this plan.  That
means whenever you renew your policy, the
insurance company tells you
if there has been any material change.
Material change means you have taken some treatment.
A new medical condition develops.  Any change
that may alter the insurance company's
approach to risk assessment or alter
its terms and conditions.
Whatever the company needs to know,
you must tell them upon renewal and due to which
changes may also occur.  There was a lot of controversy regarding this.
After that the company
clarifies that we had introduced this material
change close so that if you get
fit within the whole year then we can
also reduce your premium.  The
loading that was applied can also be reduced.
But the truth is also the opposite.  Because
we know how much insurance companies
care about reducing our premiums.
Every policy holder is aware of this.
So concluding this video I
would like to say that ICIC LBR brand
is very good.  But you have to be very aware of your policy terms
and conditions contract.  You will have to have
good knowledge of this.
Because see, an insurance policy
is a legal contract between two parties.
When your opponent is so educated
, so aware about this contract.
So if you are not aware then
you may suffer loss somewhere.
Because if the company rejects even a fair claim,
you may not be able to challenge it.
Because you did not understand the policy contract
, conditions and details properly.
Anyway, my aim in making this video was to
show you transparently what this plan is like, what the company
is like, how it is performing based on real
time data.  If you liked this video,
you can like the video and subscribe to the channel
so that
you keep getting similar unbiased videos in the future.
If you
want to compare this plan with other plans, then
you can visit Policyba India's biggest
web aggregator and insurance broker
whose link I will give you in the description.
Yes, this will be an affiliate link but that will
not affect your premium and your
services in any way.  So if you
want to buy this plan, want to compare it
, then you can buy and compare it from there by clicking on the link given in the description and pin comments.
And yes,
here is the video of the Insurance Ombudsman's complaints.  You
can see it by clicking.  I am
Harvinder Singh, I will meet you in the next video.
Till then take care, stay fit and stay
healthy.  Jai Hind.